## Process

At the outset of this project, I knew that I wanted to focus on Dutch Impressionism and imagery, but I wasn't sure of which artist to focus on. After looking at a few of the prominent artists from the time, Rembrandt stood out as having the most unique story, especially through his approximately forty self-portraits. I thought, "there must be an interesting story to tell here." I began researching like crazy, at first looking into all of his portraits, not just self-portraits. I was finding really amazing connections. For example, one of his self-portaits was painted on wood from the same tree as two portrait set he painted of other men. At a certain point, however, I realized there was a very rich story just by looking at his self-portraits, not only becuase there were some interesting commonalities between them but I thought it was very interesting how he was telling a story about himself. As you will see, he sometimes characterized himself in a way that was different from his reality.

Almost all of the data for this project was from sources other than the MET, although some of my initial inspiration for the porject was realized through searching MET data. Through my research, I found a few data sources that were the foundation of populating a list of categories and subcategories I found common in his works. The most reliable of those sources is a Dutch digital art collection website called RKD that specializes in artists from the Netherlands. This source had almost all of his self-portraits and had all of the data on controversy and interesting connections to Rembrandt's other portraits. Another source was a website completely dedicated to Rembrants self-portraits. This was helpful as a cross-reference to the primary source and it was nice to see a chronological list of his self-portraits, which was a structure simmilar to what I was planning to employ. There were some works that did not match with RKD, so I had to look at a few other websites and google to get the final group. There is still a chance that I might be incorrect on a few of the works, but they are mostly vetted! Another huge source in the previous method and in general was the website of each museum or collection that housed the self-portrait. They didn't always have information about the piece, but they often did and it usually offered amazing details and context for me as I was categorizing each of his works.

So, I began to compile my own csv. My literal process was to look at each image in the order it was painted, give it a filename, go the the RKD website to obtain the year of creation, location painted, and any controversial data. Then I would search google or the webiste of the museum that holds the piece and find more information, which would often help me define the type of attire, find transitions between stages in his career, and find standout pieces that really defined his progression of style as an artist. I collected all of this information in google sheets over 6+ hours with all of the back and forth between websites and secondary verifications. After this, I created a JSON file from google sheets so I could link to certain categories in the code and more efficiently trigger selections of images with certain qualities.

The images for this project were all downloaded on either RKD, the Rembrandt self-portraits website, or museum websites, with most images coming from the first two. They are not as consistent as I would like in terms of brightness and quality, but I made some slight edits to some in order to make them seem more cohesive. Once all of this data was collected and ready to go in AWS, I started coding my concept based on the image lab in class: